Add .NET Debugger Extensions documentation (#43825)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/diagnostics/dotnet-debugger-extensions.md

---
title: dotnet-debugger-extensions diagnostic tool - .NET CLI
description: Learn how to install and use the dotnet-debugger-extensions CLI tool to manage the .NET debugging extensions, which is used with native debuggers on Windows and Linux.
ms.date: 11/17/2020
ms.topic: reference
ms.custom: linux-related-content
---
# .NET debugger extensions installer (dotnet-debugger-extensions)

**This article applies to:** ✔️ .NET 6.0 SDK and later versions

## Install

To install the latest release version of the `dotnet-debugger-extensions` [NuGet package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/dotnet-debugger-extensions), use the [dotnet tool install](../tools/dotnet-tool-install.md) command:

  ```dotnetcli
  dotnet tool install --global dotnet-debugger-extensions
  ```

## Synopsis

```console
dotnet-debugger-extensions [-h|--help] [options] [command]]
```

## Description

> The `dotnet-debugger-extensions` global tool installs the [.NET debugger extension](debugger-extensions.md) that enable better debugging experience in native debuggers like windbg and LLDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dotnet-debugger-extensions` global tool installs the [.NET debugger extensions](debugger-extensions.md), which enable better debugging experience in native debuggers like WinDbg and LLDB.
```

This overwrites any previous installations from the dotnet-debugger-extensions or dotnet-sos installers.

### Synopsis

```console
dotnet-debugger-extensions install [--architecture <arch>]
```

### Options

- **`--architecture <arch>`**

  Specifies the processor architecture of the extension binaries to install. By default, `dotnet-debugger-extensions` installs the architecture of the host machine. Use this option when you want to install for an architecture that's different from the dotnet host architecture. For example, if you're running Arm32 binaries from an Arm64 host, you need to install with `dotnet-debugger-extensions install --architecture Arm`.

  The following architectures are available:

  - `Arm`
  - `Arm64`
  - `X86`
  - `X64`

- **`--accept-license-agreement`**
  
  This option accepts and agrees to the licensing agreement without manual keyboard interaction. For use when console input is redirected.

## dotnet-debugger-extensions uninstall

> Uninstalls the [.NET debugger extensions](debugger-extensions.md) and, on Linux and macOS, removes it from lldb configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Uninstalls the [.NET debugger extensions](debugger-extensions.md) and, on Linux and macOS, removes it from LLDB configuration.
```
